hello cave-dwellers and welcome to 2007
now that doesn't sound very retro but in
the world of tablets and mobile devices
it's practically the Jurassic period and
the asus r2h is well it's a monster to
be frank if Homer Simpson tried to
design a tablet like he designed his car
and I really think this would be the
result gorilla
it's often yielding like a Nerf ball and
this apparently is how we're going to be
using it by jabbing the top of it
blindly with a stylus
I can't wait now to be fair to it it
does describe itself as an ultra mobile
PC or um PC which is a specification
created by Microsoft and Intel in 2006
to sit somewhere between tablets and
laptops however I will call this a
tablet today because I think if you
showed this to anyone that's how they
would identify it but it's worth keeping
that in mind when assessing it let's
open the box then and take a look and
inside you'll not only find the tablet
but also an accessory pack which we'll
start with to prepare you for every
adventure allottee the accessory pack
includes a mouse and power cable pretty
standard stuff there then we have an
Asus branded Windows easy sync cable to
ease your migration to the machine in
theory we've got an antenna I'll show
you why in just a second then there's an
external lipo battery pack to extend the
battery life to around three and a half
hours which actually is quite impressive
for the time now tablets are primarily
devices to consume entertainment at
least that's what I use mindful so with
that in mind we've got a TV tuner to go
with that antenna and I can't help but
smile at this inclusion but as if
dongles and antennas weren't cramping
your style already you can then plug in
this fold-out keyboard to take over the
entire table at the coffee shop and
become an ultra portable road warrior
throw in a protective sleeve and a
remote control Windows XP tablet Edition
in case you're still on the fence over
whether this is a tablet or not and a
bunch of CDs and DVDs so it must have a
DVD drive somewhere and you're nearly
ready to go we just need the device
itself from box number two
and so I present to you the device that
is all things to all people more thick
than slick and with stickers promising
us the power of an Intel Celeron M CPU
inside this is the asus r2h let's take
it for a test drive our MC is supported
by monster joysticks calm level up your
retro gaming with their joysticks
feature in genuine SanMar arcade parts
and one click print calm for your photos
on canvas acrylic gifts and more local
craftsman and global delivery
[Music]
oh boy does this thing have a shiny
screen it does make it quite difficult
to film and it should have really come
with a hood tube over your head and it
so you can actually see it but here we
are in Windows XP which was Microsoft's
premiere OS for so long it feels like
putting a comfortable slipper back on is
actually Windows XP tablet edition 2005
but it's essentially the same thing with
a few extra tablet e bells and whistles
added on and like so many Windows PCs of
the era it's stacked full of utilities
antivirus software and yes straight up
bloatware here's a cold boot test for
you so you can get an idea of just how
long it takes and I did check that the
hard discs not fragmented and we're
running from the mains so it's in
performance mode this is as fast as it
gets
[Music]
that poor spinning 1.8 inch hard-disk
Drive thrashed to within an inch of its
life there and the test was not just a
load windows but for everything to
settle down for all of those extra bits
of bloatware that come as factory
because this is a factory standard
install to settle down and for you to
actually be able to use the machine you
may have noticed that tooltip air
popping up to say our display settings
are wrong ignore that it's correct
trust me if we follow that advice
Windows just sets the resolution to a
display mode that's too tall for the
screen so you end up scrolling up and
down with the mouse like this and that's
a prime example of the kind of thing we
don't have to put up with today in a
modern tablet Windows was never really
made for this kind of device and by
trying to sledgehammer it into place
these are the kind of problems that come
up time and time again now we all saw
the peripherals in the box most of which
I've plugged in although he doesn't like
our mouse I've tested that elsewhere and
the mouse is actually dead so we'll have
to lose that but in addition to those
bits we have some fun extra bits built
into the device including a 1.3
megapixel camera for those skype or MSN
Messenger calls handy but it's lacking a
rear camera which could be perhaps more
useful if you're using this device to
try and snap something on site so here
were a few more pictures from around the
cave in varying lighting conditions
[Music]
without a working mouse I've resorted to
using the mouse joystick here which is
something we also saw on the Toshiba
libretto range recently on the channel
it works well and it allows you to grip
the device while in motion to impress
your colleagues or viewers are you
impressed I thought you were biometrics
of the order of the day with a
fingerprint reader here to replace those
pesky passwords and items of note
secreted in the edges of the girthy
tablet or tablet as its form factor
should now be known is the Wi-Fi switch
an SD card reader and an AV out port for
which I don't have a cable but it looks
to be of the composite out variety
rather than VGA or DVI the onboard Wi-Fi
is complemented by an Ethernet port
right next to an expansion port for an
optional docking station here and the
party piece this is my favorite bit of
the whole thing it's this fold-out GPS
antenna if James Bond could have fit
this in his backpack along with a
fold-out picnic table for everything to
go on I'm sure he would have
[Music]
so hopefully now you'll start to get a
picture of what this thing's like it's
all very well playing with it down here
in the cave but I think it was better
together in the real world and give it a
test so that's what I did next first up
I uninstalled the unnecessary software
that we saw which made it so slow to
boot and I did get the boot down to a
more respectable 1 minute and 50 seconds
from cold at about 25 seconds from
standby so that's a little bit better
but it's still not by instant on
experience that we expect from modern
day tablets and then I went out for a
drive to test that from GPS which is
hidden away on the back of the device
there and this actually worked really
well as you'll see here in autoroute I
wasn't using this as a route planner
just tracking my progress and that's
just as well because the screen is so
reflective it would make for a terrible
sat-nav but it's a useful feature and it
did track my progress well the window
screen saver also kicked in as I
approached a roundabout so again if I
was using this as a route planner I'd me
to make a few tweaks to make sure that
doesn't happen in the US Univ had
streets and trips bundled instead of
autoroute Papago in Taiwan Hong Kong and
Singapore Ling 2 in China and Goldfinger
if you were in Australia now the next
test I wanted to do was to just watch
some TV watch some TV on the go what
could be better than that and I did that
using the bundle to digital TV USB
dongle here now it came with its own
little portable aerial and I had no
success whatsoever with that when tuning
it found absolutely no channels so I
resorted to plug in into the aerial on
the top of my house which kind of kills
the portability factor of it but I just
wanted to see it working so that's why I
did and yes that unsurprisingly then
found plenty of TV stations but despite
my best efforts I was forever trapped on
channel 5 and a show about debt
collectors whenever I tried to change
the channel the software just crashed
I'm sure alternative software can be
found but this is what came in the book
so this is what I may well have
experienced if I'd bought this back in
the day and then I went for a walk into
a field see I told you I'd field test it
and that's exactly what I'm doing here
going to see my guilty friends who were
less than impressed with the device I
did try and film them I know
camera isn't really made for outdoor
filming it's really for
videoconferencing indoors and that kind
of thing but here's a shot of me trying
to film the goats and you can see the
automatic camera settings just went
absolutely crazy I could probably fix
this but the screen was so reflective I
couldn't really see what I was filming
so it wasn't until I got back that I saw
the quality of the image so I'm
unsuccessful there but then the goat did
burp at the tablet and try to eat it
inclusive reviewed by the goats I think
Dan who donated this says that there was
a DVD drive with it which is now missing
and that's unsurprising because a USB
DVD drive would have been quite a useful
thing to have to use on your other
machine so I'm not surprised that that's
disappeared now performance wise
remember it had the seller on em sticker
down there it's running at around 900
megahertz and it's pretty poor to be
honest it's power-hungry its
underwhelming compared to the ARM based
alternatives which dominate the mobile
market today and the constant wearing of
the fan to keep all cool on the top here
is a reminder of that and there's also
the design for Windows XP but Windows
Vista capable sticker down here that's a
sticker that we saw on machines that
were being launched just before Vista
came out so it was to try and reassure
consumers that they could upgrade it the
base spec of this machine actually
doesn't meet the minimum spec of Vista
when it came out this one has been
upgraded to have a lot more RAM so it
does just scrape in there but if you try
to run Vista on this particularly when
it first came out and before a few
service packs ironed out the creases it
would have been a torrid time I wouldn't
recommended that to anyone it would have
just been even slower and even more
painful than it already is
with Windows XP what this represents
then is a period in computer history
when Windows and Intel went unopposed
for far too long in my opinion in the
mainstream a lack of innovation collided
with consumer demand for Portability and
this kind of thing was the result
it wasn't the only example Samsung
released the q1 a year before and it's
of a similar form factor and suffers
similar shortcomings but Samsung would
learn their lesson a couple of years
later in 2010 and come up with the
Samsung Galaxy tablets and charge
onwards
but the form factor that we now know
it's a painful reminder of a time when
Microsoft thought that a desktop OS
could be crowbarred into any form factor
that they liked and of single-core CPU
struggling to give us a responsive
experience and of solid state disks
being out of reach for cheap mainstream
devices
it's a fudge and for many of us we've
been conditioned over the years that
with this kind of rubbish but by 2007 I
think a lot of us were really stunned I
think there has to be something better
around the corner
the r2h is basically a laptop without
the hinge it has devices bolted on like
the GPS which could easily be picked up
from makers like a Garmin and plugged
into your laptop if needed or in the
case of the TV tuner it's just a regular
USB TV tuner you could have picked that
up from anywhere and you could have just
as easily plugged that into your desktop
and used if you needed to there is
nothing special or portable about that
it's just a bit crap you know to HSN
scores two fuses and a tape dispenser
for its review score and it's not
something I recommend you add to your
collection but like all things donated
at the cave it's very much appreciated
and will be looked after as an example
of the lessons we had to learn along the
way to tablet enlightenment as always
thank you for taking the time to watch
take care and see you soon
if you enjoy my content and would like
to support the cave while receiving a
completely ad free experience and access
to releases one week before they go
public
then visit patreon.com forward slash
retro mancave and join the official cave
dwellers thank you for your support
[Music]
you